# Background
Selenium Framework written in Java for End to End (E2E) testing of an [e-commerce website](https://www.rahulshettyacademy.com/loginpagePractise/). 

Page objects and Tests are included to demonstrate the integration with the framework.

# Framework Features
1. Uses Maven for dependency management.
2. Utilizes TestNG for assertions and test annotations.
3. Uses Maven's Surefire plugin to integrate with TestNG to run tests.
4. Runs tests in parallel.
5. Framework supports running on Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge, or Mozilla Firefox.
6. Generates a HTML Extent Report summarizing test results and how long the tests took. Test failures have screenshots attached to them.
   1. Choosing to use Extent Report Framework instead of report generated by Maven Surefire Plugin for better customization.
7. Implements Page Object Model (POM) design pattern for ease of code maintenance and clear separation of page object responsibilities.
8. Waits for elements to be visible before interacting with them.
9. Can leverage TestNG's DataProvider feature to run test methods with multiple configurations.

# Run Parameters
Maven run configurations follow this pattern: 

mvn clean test -D _testSuite_ -D _browser_ -D _url_

Where:
* testSuite: The name of your XML testing suite.
* browser: The name of the browser to test on. Supports Chrome, Edge, or Firefox.
* url: The URL of the starting website for the tests.

# Considered but not done
* This framework does not use TestNG's IRetryAnalyzer interface for re-running flaky tests. **This is bad practice**. If tests are flaky to begin with, they need to be updated to be more robust.
